Good evening, everyone.
Yeah, good evening, sir. Good evening, sir.
Okay, uh,
Share my screen and then we'll start until
Stop here.
The screen is visible, right?
Yes. Yes, sir. It is visible, yeah. Thank you.
Okay, so
Before I start this thing,
I did actually told you like a little bit
of like a regression in the last week you did, right?
And the, uh, regression as well as the classification.
We deal with two problems. Okay?
So I'll just, uh, tell you the, like a little bit info on
that one so we can start this ary, like today's factor,
Okay? So
whenever you are actually going for any, uh,
algorithms, uh, like development, uh, whether that's, uh,
like, uh, you know, uh, machine learning, deep planning,
whatever model you hear about, like whether applying centry,
uh, cane, uh, nearest neighbor,
or even like, uh, this SVM, uh, ion neural network,
or maybe you are going into like a erritory of deep planning
where, uh, you are applying CNN, uh, uh,
like a r versus a with any algorithm.
So basically whenever you're dealing with, uh,
you basically are actually predicting some kind of value,
uh, that value, okay?
The prediction, what is happening?
Either you are going predict some
numbers, some numeric value,
Okay?
Okay. This numeric value can range in finite.
So if we consider the decimal points like between zero
to one, how many po potential values can be there?
The finite number of numbers
will be there between zero to one.
That is the numeric value we are talking about.
So it can be zero point, um, 0.0, okay?
Uh, 0.1,
0.2.
So up to you.
Think of any number or up to like, uh, any possible number.
So that is the thing. Whenever you are doing, uh,
like this kind of operations, uh, where numeric value
as an output, you're expecting those things are we are
calling as regression.
Okay? So whenever actually applying any model, okay?
Uh, whether you are applying regression model
or classification in the regression,
you are basically predicting the numeric, uh, value, okay?
And whenever you are going for the, uh, like, uh,
predicting some kind of categorical
output, fine.
So the categorical output doesn't suppose, uh,
whether you are predicting the weather will be
or like hot, mild, or cold, okay?
So you can, like, we generally actually encode this
and, uh, give some number.
So for hot, suppose zero, mild supposed one code supposed
to, but these are divided into categorical manner.
As in like you get a, like a, you know, uh, out
of the options, you get some kind of like a fixated, uh,
number, which is representing some categorical output.
So those are known as your classification
Thing, Okay? So
whenever you're dealing with the problems, the regression
or the classification based on the output,
that is you are predicting.
If it is numeric value, then we are doing the regression.
So in previous class we did apply the logic regression,
we applied the, uh, uh, linear regression.
They will be learning the decent, decent reason, uh,
regressor as well as a classifier.
You have both the option to apply these algorithms
as a regression techniques
or classifi techniques based upon your requirement.
You choose what kinda like algorithms you are applying,
whether that's a regressor or that's classifier.
I hope this is clear. Okay?
Last class we, I forgot to tell you.
So regression, whenever we are actually having
some numeric value output.
So any possible fractional number
that is you are getting as an output.
So you are going for the regression, and
whenever you are selecting some target variable,
that is the why in our case, why you go
to something we're we're doing.
If that is a, like a categorical value, we are, uh, setting
as target, then that is classification.
Always remember based upon your output or target value
or why that you are selecting, we choose the regression
or the classification algorithm. Fine.
I hope This is clear. Okay?
Now, uh, we'll be jumping into this thing
that is the, okay,
Okay, so, uh,
Let's, uh, think of a scenario where, uh, there's a, uh,
like, uh, I want
to find like whose salary are more than a hundred thousand
dollars on a yearly basis.
So this is a graph taken from the internet.
Uh, like basically we have the, uh, data for the Google,
uh, Facebook and a b, c pharma.
So based on that, you can like, uh, do this kind
of tree, tree as in like, uh, you know,
this is the root node we say on the top side, whatever the,
you know, element is there, okay?
That entity we call is the root node.
This node is call is root node, okay?
From there, the branches, these are the branches
and followed by the lymph nodes
or the child nodes, we connect those.
Now, the basic idea is
whenever you are actually seeing a tree, uh,
in computer science or data science, uh, field,
it is reversing order.
The root is not beneath the surface.
It is above the surface in case of computer science thing.
So root is above the like, uh, the branches
and every nodes, lymph nodes, everything are actually below.
So in this one, uh, we are trying to predict, like, uh,
trying to predict that is the,
like whose salary we are more
than a hundred thousand dollars.
So you are having the data
for Google, Facebook, and AVC Pharma.
Now, on the basis of that, you are, um, like, uh,
understanding this Facebook pays very well for like any kind
of, uh, you know, employees.
So they are obviously, uh, all of the employees,
if they're from Facebook, they're directly saying, okay,
uh, that guy earns a lot.
Okay? If they're from Google, if
that is the business analyst, okay,
they are having higher salary if
that's a computer science engineer, okay?
If, uh, that computer science engineer is having bachelor's,
no, they're not getting, if that is they're having master's,
they're getting more than a hundred thousand dollars.
If that person is sale executive, uh,
they're not getting a hundred thousand bucks.
Same, same for the AVC pharma.
So different rules in a different company on
different kind of thing, fine.
Now The RY helps us to like understand,
like formulate the problem in such a way,
such a tree like structure, that kind of ethos condition,
what we do in programming with that order, okay?
You feed the data, okay?
You feed the like, uh, uh, data of a entity
that this person works in this company, okay?
What, uh, like what is the likelihood
that the person is earning more than a hundred thousand, uh,
dollar yearly or less than that?
So the idea is you are predicting some kind
of value based on this, you know, uh,
defined tree structure.
That is the, your wholesale idea of the decent,
Okay, now I'll do this one.
This is better one guess, okay?
Now, in this one, uh, okay, the visionary,
basically it is a supervised learning method used
for classification and regression,
and it help us to, uh, for the decision making.
And basically this is very popular algorithm
for the classification problem, uh, problem
because it's a pro probabilistic approach, okay?
Now we'll be understanding what are the things which is,
which are associated with the decision tree,
how the decision trees are made, okay?
Then we'll be going for the coding part.
Now, understand, like, uh, similar thing, suppose,
Uh, We are saying that, uh, uh,
Okay,
Okay. Suppose this,
this is a more like a
or also overview of some, uh, playing kind of stuff
that we'll discuss later.
Don't worry on this one. Okay? Let's go in this one.
What are the entities that, uh, Ry actually helps us,
uh, like, uh, to create?
So what are the entities, uh, like, uh,
that define edition tree?
We are having few of these nodes, okay?
Now these nodes are like defined as the
whatever the top most node that will call as addition node.
That is the root node we are saying, okay, followed by
whatever the successive nodes, the child nodes
that they are having, they might be two or no than two.
One parent can have two on more than two child classes,
and those nodes will have further child classes and all.
And then the last bottom, that will be the leaf node, okay?
And these leaf nodes, they'll be the output of your,
you know, um, classification problem.
Suppose we are saying yes
or no, something like that in the previous algorithm, uh,
you can see this is a problem of binary classification.
Suppose we are predicting for some kind of sports
where if it is outdoor, okay, outlook, outlook,
that means whether they're predicting whether
that's a sunny, whether
that's overcast or whether that's rain.
If it is a overcast, they're directly saying, yes,
you can play, you can play outside that sports, okay?
If it is sunny, and if it is also checking the humidity
level, if that is very, you know, uh, low
and also normal and high.
If the humidity level is very high,
then it is also saying if it is sunny,
if it humidity is very high,
that is not suitable for, uh, playing.
If it's humidity is normal
and the weather is sunny, then you can play similarly,
if it is raining and the wind that is strong in that case,
you don't play, okay?
And if the wind is, uh, you know, weak
and the rain is there, then you can also play.
So these leaf nodes are your decision, okay?
This leaves node are basically your decision
where you are saying whether you want to, will be able
to play or not, that the leaf nodes are saying whether
that's a yes or no,
and in between whatever the no are there.
Those are like your decision nodes, okay?
First we set up the root node
and followed by the other nodes.
Now the question is how we can like, uh, you know, al order,
which, you know, outlook should be here
or the humidity should be there,
or the wind should be there, which should be the, you know,
root and which should be, shouldn't be like a followed
by the, like a der
what are the like next node should be coming and all.
So how do we do it?
We have some algorithms
that we'll be going through those, okay?
The basic ideas finding this first, the root note,
which is the most important feature, okay?
Now this finding the root node
and, uh, you know, successive nodes, what are the features?
These nodes are basically the features.
So in this example, let's just uh, go this one,
we had multiple data, we had this job roles, okay,
job roles as in business manager, computer, uh,
programmer sales executive.
We had, uh, another feature, okay?
So if like let you do one thing
in a dataset, how can we write company?
Then we will have, you know, job role,
then we'll have degree
and we'll have another,
there's a target variable salary search.
Yeah, salary target variable.
Yeah, this will be our target variables, okay?
So one data, example being, uh, company Facebook,
suppose job always, uh, programmer
did we suppose masters salary, suppose
200, okay?
And so this kind of dataset we are having,
so another Facebook, then Google, we are having,
so these dataset from these, the node setting in.
Now each of these, you know, first
that is the features we are having four features we are
having, how this company node should be higher compared
to the job role or degree or salary.
This how we are actually adjusting
how we are taking this company as a root node.
The main vision maker based on that will be, you know,
distributing the other nodes and all that is actually, uh,
done through two algorithms.
One is, uh, you know, information gain.
Another is gene method that we'll discuss. Okay?
So one is the problem thing.
That is the entropy we calculate for your information gain
and entropy and combine both of them together to formulate,
uh, the root note and other things.
So entropy is refers to a common way of measuring impurity.
Impurity as in what are the attributes, which is directly
or in case indirectly impacting your, uh,
you know, target variable.
So we are measuring the impurity of the, each
of the attributes compared to your target variable, if
that is higher, okay?
Then we like suppose there are, uh,
three attributes which are actually having, uh,
like except the target variable in this one, in this one,
apart from the target variable,
we are having three different, uh, more attributes
or the other variables are there or the features.
We'll check the entropy of each of them, okay?
Company job, role and degree
and compare with the salary, the entropy, respect
to the salary, whichever is having the highest value
that is affecting the job, uh, salary higher.
So we'll make that as a root note
and followed by the successive reputation, uh, followed
by making the note, note.
Then following that, our addition note up on that
and all we go on by one
and finally, until we reach the, you know, all
of the divisions, okay?
So entropy is one of them.
We calculate each of the attribute compared
to the target variable,
and we check, which is having the higher, you know,
impact factor and all.
Now the entropy is a ca calculated by this formula
that is the minus of submission, POX into log up.
Px, PX is the, you know, the ratio between your, uh,
categorical output.
Suppose we are saying that yes
and no, suppose in a dataset five years are there
and seven nos are there.
So five by five plus seven, so five by uh, 12,
that will be the PX value.
So basically log a PX into px
and we do the submission of all those things
to calculate the entropy of the entire dataset.
Now, from the entire data set from this entropy will be, uh,
individual calculate for each of the data
that I'll show you in an example.
Then we get the, uh, like the final fellow
that the entropy, each of the dataset.
Then we can select our root note, okay?
That's the same thing how calculations been done.
I'll show you in a second. Okay?
These are the examples, okay?
Now, once you calculate the entropy,
then we calculate the information gain of each
of the attribute,
and we finally, uh,
get the whatever the value is highest, we get that one.
Now, this is the information gain
and entropy is one of the like option,
and another option is genie.
Okay? So whenever you are actually, uh, applying any,
any model, uh, decently based model,
or even you are going random forest
and enseal method, uh, methods and all of these, okay?
The, these two kind techniques,
you'll be actually applying either genie
or it'll be applying this, uh, entropy based algorithm.
Now, GENI is, uh, ca calculation wise,
it is not having any log log formula,
so it is much more easier on the computation,
but the problem is, uh, like, uh,
it can split in multiple ways.
So it is better
whenever you are having like a fewer, uh, you know,
attributes, the columns you're having lesser in number,
then you can rightly go for the genie.
If the data set is also less, you can apply
for the genie if the data set is huge, okay?
The attributes number is huge.
The, you know, uh, size of the rows are also huge.
Then, uh, like, uh, in those cases you can apply for the G
and if the calculation
and everything is a little bit on the lesser side,
you can rely on that, uh, entropy calculation
because, uh, competition is higher,
but you don't have to bother
because the data set is smaller in size.
Now, let's just go and see the example of how this,
you know, calculations are being done
and all, so we all already understood the things.
So additionally, non parametric supervisor, uh, you know,
learning algorithm, so this is another example.
This is, uh, like very nice.
Think of it like, uh, you know, I'll ask you 20 questions,
and based on that, I'll say whether in the Titan dataset,
whether you have survived or not, okay?
So I suppose if the passenger is male or female, okay?
If, uh, um, that person's age is 30
or like a greater than 30
or not, okay, uh, what was the like, uh, you know,
embarkment and other sorts of factor, then I'll, uh,
say the outcome whether that person has survived or not.
So I'll ask multiple questions, okay?
Similarly I can ask you, okay?
Uh, so where did you do your degree?
How, like, uh, whether you are having master or not or PhD
and all in which company you are, uh, currently working
and which job, how many years
of experiences you're having Based on that,
I can say like whether your salaries above, uh, suppose, uh,
20, like or less than 20, like something like that, okay?
That the decent I'm creating from multiple, you know,
questions, formulations.
So that is the idea of the decry.
So first this node structure we are creating, uh,
finding the, like what is the attribute is affecting higher
and followed by the other nodes and no,
Uh, okay,
So junior index, similarly, this is the formula
for calculations of the each of the node
and finding out the, which are having, uh,
the higher impact, and we set them as a root node.
And in this class, we'll be actually going
for this information again in TR P
and we will calculate this one.
So we're having this formula, we already discussed
submission off, uh, this p uh, PX
into log up to px, uh, this PX or, or PIR
or the probabilistic value.
So I told you one example,
you are having suppose in a data set, okay?
Uh, suppose, uh, play, uh,
that is some game was there.
Suppose that is play tennis, okay?
In this play tennis, you had the dataset.
Suppose there other 14 dataset
or 14 rows of data that is there in
that 14 data you are having, uh, suppose nine years
plus five, no.
Okay? In that case, the P of I,
that can be calculated as your, okay.
Uh, so submission of all the classes.
So first I'll calculate for the P of I, that is the yes,
yes I is equal to, yes, in this case
that will be, uh, okay, yes,
we are on nine y total submission is 14
and two log base two
nine y 14.
Similarly, I have to calculate four P of i is equal to no.
So
Hmm,
This will be five by 14
and to log
five y 14.
So you'll, uh, if there are multiple categories are there
based on that, you'll cal do calculation of the PUI
and basically calculate these things, okay?
And minus summation of that one,
what about the value you are getting of the entire dataset?
That will be the entropy.
Now, okay, that is there.
Now let's go like, let's go to the example.
I think that will be the better thing, okay? Understand.
Now, this is a like famous dataset, uh, for, you know, uh,
teaching this, uh, vision tree, okay?
Uh, along with the, for like a random forest,
and, uh, there are other sort
of things if you're into like in symbol methods
and all that also discuss, okay?
Suppose this is the data we are having.
Fine, just look at this data, okay?
I will do this in the next page.
So we are having all total 14 data, okay?
In this data, what is happening,
you are having multiple attributes in this attributes.
One of the feature is outlook.
Another feature is temperature, another is, uh, humidity,
another this wind and others s.
So each of them is data taken, okay?
And like some combination has been, uh, done
and data has been, uh, like, uh, you know,
now we are having this, no, sunny weather,
temperature was hot, humidity was high, wind was weak,
and is it ideal for playing tennis?
Uh, the answer is no in this case, uh,
similarly you say overcast weather was hot,
humidity was high, wind was weak,
and yeah, it is saying, yeah, you can play tennis.
Okay? So similarly, multiple data sets are there.
We need to now formulate decent based on that,
the target variables plate in it.
So I'll give you some, you know, dataset
or random, uh, like, uh, uh, current, uh, supposed to, uh,
today's weather, I'm checking it is, uh, uh, seeing that,
uh, temperatures moderate
or the cold, um, the, it is sunny outside,
humidity is low, wind is high.
So should I play tennis or not?
The RY algorithm
or the model will tell us is, is it ideal
for playing tennis or not?
Okay? So the first calculation is, uh, we have
to find the root note for finding the root note first,
you order to find the entropy of the entire dataset, fine.
Now, the entire dataset we calculate in it this way, okay?
Uh, okay, yeah.
So py of entire dataset, that is the
how many years, how many no, you are having.
So the target variable, target variable, having our,
that is the 14 examples are there, okay,
we have nine years.
Five, no, based on that, we calculate this one, nine by 14,
log two into this one.
So this is for the yes minus this one that is for no,
because this is binary.
More categories are there would've do
or do the like some minus sum submission of everything.
So that is there. So
after this calculation, okay, uh, this yes
and no for the entire dataset, okay?
0.940. That is the value we got. Okay?
Now we have to do for every, you know, other attributes
as well, uh, this entropy calculation, and
after this entropy liquidation, two stages there,
the information gain will calculate, okay?
Now we split the data 14 samples
by the value of the outlook.
Now we are taking the outlook in this outlook.
What is happening in the sunny?
We are having two years, three, no, okay,
and based on the similar calculation, okay, we are having
entropy of the sunny in the, you know, outlook.
We are having 0.971.
So basically the calculation is something like this.
Uh, okay, information can for that one.
Now, for outlook,
We have to individually calculate for each of those entro.
Sunny will be something like, uh, the P of, you know,
what is the, where is the sunny?
Sunny is P of x log off, p, f,
x, and this one P of X for the sunny.
Then this one I have total, uh,
value is total five values are there.
So two divided by five
and two log off.
Uh, this is two divided by five. So this is four hour. Yes.
So that's minus again, minus.
So again, category, we have two.
No, and this one, I'll do that. Sorry, three.
No, 3, 5, 5 star log.
3, 5, 5, okay?
Now, after calculation of doing this,
we'll get this value 0.971
that we have set here.
Now, similarly for overcast, we'll calculate again, okay, E
of overcast, okay?
Some value will be there. That is zero
because in all of the overcast, if you see the data,
okay, doesn't matter, whatever the other parameters are
playing tennis, it is saying yes, okay?
Overcast another data, it is saying playing. Yes.
Similarly, two more overcast. It is also saying yes, yes.
So if the weather is overcast,
I'm seeing whatever the other
datas are saying doesn't matter.
At our other features are saying we
are directly going for playing tennis.
So we also calculate for the overcast, we get something like
that is a pure, so it is affecting the highest, okay?
Now, same we do for the in calculate this one,
we also get some value.
Now, once you do that, you do the calculation
of the gain gain as in gain of, you know,
overlook, sorry, outlook.
So you calculate the gain of outlook overall.
Now, the formula says the entropy of the entire dataset
for the target average 0.940.
That is this value, okay?
EFS yes, no ca calculation that,
that we are having 0.940 minus whatever the, you know,
total submission of these, you know,
individual activities we just calculated
for this sunny overcast and the rain, okay?
You have rain, you're having whatever the value,
you are adding all of this as a, uh, like with the,
you know, how many this information gain,
you're putting 0.9 7 1 0 0 1, 9 7 1, along with
whatever the features are there based on that, you know, uh,
five features are there, sunny, um, uh,
came five times outta 14.
So five out of 14, our customer came five, four out, 14.
The PX value of that one basically.
So we get some kinda information gain.
So that is the main idea that we have
to calculate once you calculate this one, okay?
You have to go and do for, for the other features as well.
So Outlook, we did okay, humidity,
you do the calculation, you get this value.
When you did the do the calculation, this value
and temperature, the calculation,
you get this kind of value.
Now, once you, you compare each of them
and you check which is having the highest, you know, value.
So in this one we had the highest value that is a outlook.
So now we know what is the root node of the outlook.
The root node is outlook.
Sir, one quick question here, sir. Yes, please.
So as outlook, uh, uh, is categorical variables, uh,
it is having certain categories like our rain
and all things, so,
but what in, how we'll do for the continuous variable,
do we need to segment them or bucket them
and do it like, like it, like temperature we are having?
So continuous variable
I idea is see when we say no, uh,
that you are having a dataset and which algorithm to apply.
So based on this, uh, you know, decently
and symbol methods along with this, uh, random
for the basic idea is
whenever you are having the dataset, which are like, uh,
distributed categorically, you apply this algorithm.
If it is having, uh, values which are having like, uh,
continuous values
and all in that sense,
what happens is like this tree becomes a huge number, okay?
The decent tree are like a, not like binary or binary.
They're dividing, they're dividing in multiples.
In that way, it is not able to do the prediction very well,
if even if it is doing the computation cost is very higher.
So you do award these kind of situations
where you're dealing with, uh, you know,
numerical values instead of categorical values, uh, for, um,
this type of algorithm.
I hope you got the idea.
Yes, Yes. But, uh, in, uh, real time, we, uh,
we have a mix of data so we can can't drop uh,
uh, continuous variable.
No, you cannot drop the continuous variable,
but it will see, uh,
basically the idea is this calculation is getting done for
how many, like, uh, three categorical values instead
of three, if the data set is having thousands of like,
uh, values, okay?
And this will be calculated based on this thousands
of values, the information gain.
Yeah, The computation cost will be higher.
Ah, yes, That is the thing.
Yes, It'll do the job,
but the computation cost will be higher.
Nice. Yeah. Yeah.
And also the three, three node structure will be much more
complex, uh, compared like, uh, you know,
if you are applying only to the categorical data sets,
if you are having that one.
So it is much more also efficient if
you're applying on that one.
Yeah. Got It. So this is why like, um, you know,
getting the knowledge of this algorithms that is better.
So you understood the features
and all you are understanding categorically we are applying.
Now you had the idea, okay,
what if the data test set is having these kind of data
and all, why should I apply this one?
Because this will be tricky.
Now, these are the things
that makes you a better data scientist.
Yes, Sir. Sir, another quick question here. Yeah, sir.
This outlook, what you are saying it be
decision at the root node?
I yes, yes. And this, uh, humidity, wind,
and temperature are, uh, you know, kind of, uh, a state
of nature what we study.
Hmm. I mean, yes. So some probability values. Yeah.
Right? So these,
Yeah, we, we are calculating first the entropy,
then the information gain.
These are information gain calculated. Yeah.
Uh, based on the highest that becomes root node. Okay?
And from that root node, we'll calculate the, like
who are told with the secondary, uh, you know, uh,
prediction node, then the, uh, third node and also on.
So calculation is not over. We have to calculate again.
Yeah. Yeah. Now we'll, uh, compete this, uh, you know,
humidity, wind temperature against this outlook.
Yeah. Then we'll do the rest of the
Things. So, so, so
I, I can say this outlook depends on, uh,
humidity, wind, and, uh, temperature.
No, no, vice versa.
You don't have to do, like, this is kind of thing
where the humidity is having much more
to say whether you should play tennis or not.
If the hum, uh, like, sorry,
outlook is saying much more compared to the humidity, wind,
and temperature because if, if you see the dataset,
if the temperature is hot, okay?
Mm-hmm. In the hot it is saying you can play. Mm-hmm.
If it is, no, sorry, uh,
it is also saying in the hot weather, you cannot place no.
So it is, this is giving you ation.
If the humidity is high, it is saying no, you cannot play.
If the humidity is also high,
it is saying, yeah, you can play.
There's no problem in the wind.
If it is weak, say it is no, you cannot play.
If it is strong, it is saying no.
So there is no, you know, like a continuous,
like saying that whatever that guy is saying,
that is true all the time, that is not true.
But in case of outlook, if you see the sunny, for the sunny,
like, uh, uh, there are three categorical val
value for the sunny.
It is saying sometimes it is saying no,
sometimes it is saying yes. Okay?
So ultimate edition is whether to plate tennis
or not, yes or no,
Huh? Yes or no. That
we are calculating
And, and these other things given are
the state of nature. I mean,
Yeah, these all are actually dataset we are collecting.
Yeah, okay. Based on that different combination,
we are checking whether tennis or not.
So in this case, due to this overcast, you know, feature
where every overcast is saying that you should play,
Okay, okay, Fine.
Based on this, no, this, uh,
outlook has become much more stronger compared to the other,
you know, this, uh, attributes.
So, so I can understand finally here, uh, the
decision at root notice whether to play tennis or not.
Mm-hmm. Am I right?
We are setting this, uh, you know,
first edition we should go, always go
through the outlook, okay?
Then the other variables,
and finally on the left node,
we'll be finding out whether to play or not.
Okay? Okay.
So the idea is, let, let me draw this one. Mm-hmm.
Uh, Okay.
Oh,
Okay. Huh?
Now this outlook,
first we'll check it'll have three levels.
The first level is suppose if it is
overcast, okay?
Suppose second level is sunny.
Suppose this one is
or rain, if it is overcast, okay?
If it is overcast, we are saying play
tennis, you can play tennis.
There is a lymph node success to that. We don't want.
In the sunny, we are having two options.
It is saying yes, and also no.
Oh, in this rain also, yes, yes and no fine.
So we need to find more attributes so we can fit to the sun
and rain, whatever be the successive, you know, uh, this,
uh, outlook.
After sunny, what should you check whether you should check
wind or humidity in this space?
Humidity, yeah. Okay.
Now first you check the outlook every sunny,
whether you should check wind or humidity.
In this case, whether you should check the wind humidity,
because alone, the sunny
and rain is not able to make the decision,
but over alone can make the decision.
So now we need to calculate for the sunny
and rain what are, what the like next
node should be once it is done.
Suppose hypothetically I'm saying
after sunny it is,
it should check the humidity, okay?
If the humidity is high, okay?
If it is high, and if it is low
or normal, yeah, if it is high,
I'm saying no north, no.
If it is normal, yes.
Then again, suppose we are inviting the wind
or maybe we're saying directly, yes, you can play status.
So that is how the addition tree is made, okay?
Yeah. Okay.
Now first up to this point, it is done fine.
Now this point we need to calculate how like the combination
of these things will come or not.
Okay? Now work has done sunny, this thing.
Now calculation two for the sunny, okay, we are
taking this, you know, data only.
So we have cut the table.
This is the outlook for the sunny only,
and associated data, whatever it is having.
So five attributes we are having on this five attributes.
First, we'll calculate the entropy of the sunny.
Previously we calculated it for the,
now we'll calculate it for this one.
Now we, once you calculate for this one, entropy
of the sunny 0.7971,
we have already calculated for the previous table.
You can use that one. Now,
tasting the humidity on sunny days, whether two plate tennis
or not, and this based on this thing three, no, zero, yes,
two yes, zero no.
Okay, for the high and the no humidity cases.
Now you calculate the information gain with respect
to two the sunny.
Now you get some kind of value.
The similar approach, what you did in the last, you know,
uh, staged, you have to do this with respect to sun only.
Now, similarly, you are testing the hu wind.
That is, uh, another attribute which is left.
Now you crosscheck
and calculate the information again,
you get some kind of value.
Now, for the sun, you have calculated these two.
Now what, what is higher? This one humidity.
So on the base of sunny, you can directly set the humidity.
It is higher or lower. We will set this one. Okay?
Now in case of rain, okay, in case of rain,
we will calculate for this thing also.
So rain is having multiple attributes, sorry, five, five,
uh, rows of data in this.
Uh, also five, we are having some yes and some no.
We are, it alone cannot make the, we have to
combine these attributes as well, okay?
Temperature, humidity on wind and all those things.
Now for this wind, okay, uh, we are doing the test of wind,
we are doing testing of the other sets of data,
suppose temperature and all.
Then we'll be able to sort out this, you know,
what about the successive nodes and everything out there?
So that is the idea of the ry.
Similarly, instead of information gain calculation
and the tropical calculation, you can also go
for the genie index.
That is the, like a different formula you use,
whatever the higher value you are getting,
you set the root node
and associativity with the successive nodes
and new formula, the dic, that is the idea right
Now we'll go and do this coding also.
That is the thing, okay?
So this actually I scripted from this one
for the Titan dataset itself
because in the last class we also, this, this one
we use the Titan dataset.
So I uh, thought you guys will be a little bit familiar
with the Titan dataset.
Okay? Do a new one.
Okay?
So what are the things we need for the library or library?
We are importing one way thing.
One way I'll tell you, okay, so first the pandas
for data loading and all this will need, okay,
sacred LED model selector.
From there split that. We need to do that.
We are taking decent entry classifier.
In this case, we're taking because we want
to do the classification based on the, whether the,
you know, person has survived or not.
We are using the same titan data set.
We are using the accuracy metrics in this case, okay?
And we are also using the level code and min mix color
because in the dataset we we're having few attributes.
Uh, if you actually was in the last class,
you would be able to remember this one.
Let's just run this one, okay? And load the dataset.
Yeah, physical to ed.
I think I need to upload the data as well.
So I uploaded the data, okay? Already it,
Okay?
Alright, CS V
Again, the things we did in the last class,
we'll do the repeat, the same
Drop NA, okay,
Euro wrote and no sir
na, it should be.
No. Okay, that's just like a mistake,
Okay? Do you not drop
na?
Now what are the things we are dealing with?
I will go a little bit faster, okay?
State by stage, but no, apply this one head. Okay?
Now the features and everything that is there,
Okay? I'll
take a quick dip on this one.
So level encoder
and this one embarkment.
So we are doing the level encoding on the six
as well as the embarkment.
Fine. Once it is done,
what we need to do, huh?
And this features on, okay, now this features,
it is taking the p class, x, H, uh,
S-I-V-S-P, we embarked.
So we can reduce a few of them
or you can include all of these things.
So let's just keep this way, okay?
Now let's understand
what are the things we are having on this passenger id,
which is already removed, survived.
That is our target variable P class.
It is mostly categorical value.
1, 2, 3, something like that.
So we are taking this one name, we are dropping, uh, six.
We are keeping, okay, age.
We have to keep, because this is like
very important data set.
S-I-V-S-P. So this also categorical data, so not numeric
for this age only.
We'll be having a little bit of complexity for, uh,
calculation in this duration tree
and, uh, ticket price, uh, sorry, ticket name, fair,
fair will also have a, like a huge, you know, uh,
calculation thing and not, because it is not done manually
and we have don't have to do with the hands and all.
We can rely on the computer to like, you know,
use their C-P-U-G-P-U or DAM
and all those things to calculate
like behavior tasks and all.
Uh, because the data is fairly on lower in size,
we can like also include this in this.
Fear is an age, okay?
And other things are basically the categorical value.
Now, once we actually have this one,
the XY value are already then taken.
Now we'll go and do the trend test plate fine.
So we have to do this x strain in
X test by
test
splitter,
Sorry, X test.
TEST.
Oh, sorry, yeah, like, uh,
I'm getting used to this new keyboard.
So that is one of the problem that I'm having
a lot mistakes and all.
Okay? Anyways, that is there.
Now, uh, another thing you need to do on this random 42,
generally we keep whenever actually, uh, taking data, uh,
or you know, breaking the data into sub
smaller chunks and all.
So this randomly you're taking the data, but
whenever you are running the data, rerunning the code,
you are not getting every time the random values from the
entire data set, these values are fixed.
And every time you rerun the code
and all, you get the exact, you know,
this random values again from the entire dataset.
So your calculation for the acquisition,
all those things doesn't change.
So this is the random state is called 42 instead of 42.
You can apply any numbers that is like,
but the random state you have to apply.
Now once you've done that,
Okay, uh, now
Anything else we need to do, I don't think uhha scaler,
okay, because this is like a probabilistic, uh, thing
that we are calculating.
So you can skip the scaling part, fine,
Okay? That is
there,
no, this side.
Now like every algorithm you apply, basically
those are like two, three lines of code.
That is not the problem. So in this one also, uh,
we are creating the, you know, objects for the ry, okay?
In this duration classifier, which we included in this one,
Uh, this one,
Sorry, third leg learn three import re classifier.
So we are taking this RY classifier
and we are two train the model on the base of our data set.
Now, in this one ter, either you can go for this entropy
or you can go for the geni.
So based on your, you know, requirement
and the data complexity
and all, if the data complexity is very higher
and all, you can go for the geni,
otherwise you can stick to this, uh,
more popular the in P one.
Okay? Now the depth you are saying like whatever the like
maximum level of, you know, uh, trees depth can be there.
So this, you can do like hidden trial method on the basis
of the dataset as well.
Once you do that, again, we have to do model, do fit.
In this case also, we are doing the same trend
and for the AC receive checking, we are doing the, uh,
prediction of this one.
So there's a different line I'll
Do.
Now we are doing the white prediction
extract we are giving, and based on that we're calculating.
Now print
I see off
is,
is it
Okay? Understood.
I'll run this code
and let's see what is the output we are having?
Okay, that why train? I think capital Y was there.
Okay? So after training the model
and all, we are getting almost 81% accuracy.
That is the thing we are think.
So this is how you know the, like, you know, this
coding is very much simple
because you like write few lines of, you know,
so scripts on the, uh, chat G will be able to fetch the code
and you can like, uh, execute those things,
but understanding why to use this code, that is,
I do think like I get IV cannot like, uh,
teach you on direct in a shortcut manner.
You have to understand the algorithms and everything.
Then you can go and do these things, okay?
Once you know, okay, this is the data set I'm dealing with,
these are the stages I have to go through, then
I should be applying this model.
You can take the help of the like dataset, uh, like, uh,
the coding part and all from the chat,
GPT, Gemini, all those things.
But the knowledge for applying the switch algorithm
to apply, what are the stages I should be going through
for data cleaning and data reprocessing?
That is more knowledge that is still required
and I don't think currently, uh,
the chat GPTs are not able to solve.
Okay? Anyways, uh, I think I'll conclude the class.
I'll share the, uh, this, uh, whole document,
the two documents I created for this, uh, today's class,
and, uh, based on that you do what?
Ha another thing I forgot to tell you. Okay?
Random forest in simple methods. So what is happening now?
You know, what is recently,
how it is calculated and all fine.
Now, this random forest you have might have heard in simple,
um, models we might have heard.
So these algorithms just what it takes numerous amount
of your, uh, decent trees and create the random forest.
So it's a forest made out of decent trees.
So you add like, uh, two or multiple, uh, decent trees
and you can create a random forest.
So that is the basis of the random forest
and assemble methods.
You also apply those, uh, models in a ratio way.
So few of the models will be like, uh, having higher weight,
uh, you know, uh, uh, weights
and few of the models will be having the lower weights.
So for your own task understanding,
because you're a master student, I,
once you understood this, you, you know,
additionally I want you to explore this random forest enseal
method and do practice on these algorithms as well.
That is, that will be my request to you.
So you'll have a better understanding of the decry
and decry based, you know, uh, derived algorithms.
That is a random forest enseal methods.
Fine. I think I'll conclude the class,
uh, for today. Uh,
Uh, Here only.
So if you're having any doubts and questions,
So instead of, uh, uh, instead of using this entropy,
if you give Jeanie any, like, uh, the output will change or
Let, let, let's just see, okay, let's just see
in, let's just use the
Genie. Fine,
Rerun the code.
We have this 0.81
Percentage, fine. Now
Just rerun this code.
We are having almost says 0.8108.
We had the 0.8101,
I guess a little bit higher on the genie in this case.
No, sir. Same, Same, right? Yeah, yeah. Then
I guess, uh, no changes in this data set.
Actually, if you're having like complex data set
and all the calculation, I think that will be, uh, like, uh,
for this computation part
and all that will be a, a different story.
So drastic changes or, uh, like minimal,
Not drastic, because the algorithms are same.
Their calculation is a little bit different.
One is calculating on the base of log,
the calculation is higher based on entropy.
Uh, gene is nonno logarithmic, so it is, uh,
like much more easier on the, uh, computation.
Okay, So why didn't we use the MinMax scaler here?
Okay, uh, because, uh, in this one, uh,
the three based algorithms, what is happening, uh,
you are actually individually taking one of these, you know,
attributes and calculating the entropy again,
and everything doesn't matter.
They're having higher values, lower values,
so it won't affect the, you know, uh, choosing
of the decent trees and decent nodes and all.
So it is not having that, uh, impact, uh, where you are
actually using this, uh, SVM
or even those, uh,
regression based model linear
regression logistic regression.
There, the biasness can occur in this one,
it is like a much more resilient towards biasness.
So you can skip those.
Okay, sir? Yeah.
Uh, but still if we want we can add it,
Right? Yeah, yeah. Obviously
it's a, like a good practice to have.
Okay. Can we see the, can we see the decision tree,
Decision tree as it Like, uh,
I would actually deciding, I mean, overall it's going
to use these features to decide on a, a specific, uh,
test value to predict, right?
Yeah. Let me see whether we can print the,
Can we print the
decision tree, um,
make it learn,
uh,
If it is there, the explainable AI part is coming,
uh, into play in this one.
If it is there, if it is not there, there,
like the same concept that we say the AI is,
are like mostly black box.
They take the input, they give you the output.
They don't say whatever the things
they're doing in this side.
Let's see if they're doing this one.
Uh, three fit.
Let's see.
Yeah, I'm, I'm mostly interested in
how it is treating the age because it's a,
Ah, Continuous value
Feature names
feature we can use this features.
I think there's something called plot three in
the documentation.
Maybe it's maybe made up.
No, we Had to put
Export text.
Uh, okay, this one we need to report.
Let's just see. Okay,
So this is how they have calculated.
So the primary, you know,
attribute they have taken the six followed by six.
They have taken the age, okay, followed by the age,
then fear, then other sorts of factors.
Excuse me, sir. I have one doubt here. Yeah, sir.
Uh, is there any impact for conditional probability here?
Uh, conditional probability in this case,
we are not introducing when we'll be, uh,
delving into the name base.
We directly actually apply this, uh,
conditional probability in that one.
Okay? Here we assume that, uh,
We are actually calculating the, uh,
individual probability for each of the attribute,
not the like conditional probability.
Yes, sir, but only, uh, in our referrals conditions.
If, if,
and only if certain things are satisfied, we are moving it
to the other ways.
Ah, that, that is like a, you know,
three like structure we are creating,
but we are not creating like a, if the windows will go, the
what would be be happening to the weather, then, uh,
what if I like, uh, go for, uh,
playing tennis or something like that.
The conditional probability is affecting
each other's results.
Uh, that is not the good here,
here you are taking individual attributes
and you're comparing against the final or target variable.
That is the idea,
Okay?
Now combine all of these things together,
then you get the final results.
And in this, uh, like a algorithm, you are having directly
to deal with this conditional probability,
and we are trying to find out the final results and all.
Okay, sir? Yeah.
Any more doubts and questions?
So, uh, here I choose the sex here.
That's the root purely on the entropy, uh, value.
That is it, and nothing relevant to how it's related
to age or fair here, right? So,
Hmm, fir first, uh, the, uh, root note will be
based on this a, uh, sex only.
In this case, I do think the females survived more
in the stit dataset.
Okay? Uh, because the data, whichever you are taken, if, uh,
the, the females are there, they actually get like a,
you know, whenever the panic sessions comes,
something hazardous, we mostly give, give preference to the,
and women for their own safety.
Uh, then the men, uh, goes.
So in this case, uh, the primary this, uh,
female will be having much more higher
chance of the survival.
Then the age comes because the children will be there,
which are having the lesser age,
and all due to like, uh,
to certain age only suppose they're like, uh,
greater than 10, less than 20, they're having higher chances
to survive if they're less than 10
with this like environment and not, they don't survive.
So based on this, I, I do think this, uh, like, uh,
also the dataset has been formed
and this calculation is also carried out or from them on the
Derivation And each
of the value that is there, you
Can see.
Okay, sir. Thank you. Okay.
Uh, any other, uh, doubts and questions?
Sir? Will we have an assignment for this class or no?
Uh, you can skip this one. It
Is. Okay.
Uh, I, but highly I'll suggest you to go through this,
you know, ex explore this, uh, Ry along
with this random first method.
Learn about these two models as well,
because once you learn the Ry, these are like, uh,
successful derive models from the RY
and assemble method is very popular, uh,
machine learning algorithm, it is like
a little bit advanced, you can say.
Sure, sir. Yeah. Okay.
I guess, uh, I'll close the season now,
Sir. Yes, yes.
Thank.